The Project Gutenberg eBook of Blank?
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Blank?


Author: Randall Garrett

Release date: August 30, 2023 [eBook #71525]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: Royal Publications, Inc, 1957

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLANK? ***




                                Blank?

                          By RANDALL GARRETT

                         Illustrated by ENGLE

                   Amnesia? Well, maybe--but how and
                   where had he earned that $50,000?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                          Infinity June 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Bethelman came to quite suddenly, and found himself standing on
the corner of 44th Street and Madison Avenue. He was dizzy for a
moment--not from any physical cause, but from the disorientation. The
last thing he could remember, he had been sitting in a bar in Boston,
talking to Dr. Elijah Kamiroff. After the interview was over, they'd
had a few drinks, and then a few more. After that, things began to get
hazy.

Bethelman rubbed his head. It wasn't like a hangover; his head felt
perfectly fine. But how in the devil had he gotten here? He looked
around. No one was paying any attention to him, but no one pays any
attention to anyone on the streets of New York. Still feeling queer,
he headed east on 44th Street.

He wanted to sit down for a bit, and the nearest place was the little
bar halfway between Madison Avenue and Grand Central Station. He went
in and ordered a beer.

What the hell had happened? He'd had too much to drink on several
occasions, but he'd never gone to sleep in one city and awakened in
another. Dr. Kamiroff must have put him on the plane; the biochemist
didn't drink much, and had probably been in better shape than Bethelman
had been.

He glanced at his watch. Two-fifteen! Wow! The city editor would be
wondering where he was.

He went to the phone, dropped in a dime, and dialed the city desk. When
the editor's voice answered, he said: "Hickman, this is Bethelman; I'm
sorry I'm late, but--"

"Late?" interrupted Hickman, "What're you talking about? You've only
been gone half an hour. You sick or something?"

"I don't feel too good," Bethelman admitted confusedly.

"That's what you said when you left. Hell, man, take the rest of the
day off. It's Friday; you don't need to show up until Monday if you
don't want to. Okay?"

"Yeah," said Bethelman. "Sure." His mind still didn't want to focus
properly.

"Okay, boy," said Hickman. "And thanks again for the tip. Who'd have
thought Baby Joe would come in first? See you Monday."

And he hung up.

Bethelman stood there looking foolish for a full five seconds. Then
things began to connect up. _Friday!_ It shouldn't be Friday.

He cradled the phone and walked over to the bar where the barman was
assiduously polishing a beer glass.

"What day is this?" he asked.

"Friday," said the white-jacketed barman, looking up from the shell of
gleaming glass.

"I mean the date," Bethelman corrected.

"Fifteenth, I think." He glanced at a copy of the _Times_ that lay on
the bar. "Yeah. Fifteenth."

Bethelman sat down heavily on the barstool. The fifteenth! Somewhere,
he had lost two weeks! He searched his memory for some clue, but found
nothing. His memory was a perfect blank for those two weeks.

Automatically, his hand went to his shirt pocket for cigarettes. He
pulled out the pack and started to shake one out. It wouldn't shake, so
he stuck his finger in the half empty pack to dislodge a cigarette.
There was a roll of paper stuck in it.

He took it out and unrolled it. It was a note.

_You're doing fine. You know something's wrong, but you don't know
what. Go ahead and investigate; I guarantee you'll get the answers.
But be careful not to get anyone too suspicious; you don't want to get
locked up in the booby bin. I suggest you try Marco's first._

The note was unsigned, but Bethelman didn't need a signature.

The handwriting was his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked at himself in the mirror behind the bar. He was clean
shaven--which he hadn't been when he was drinking with Dr. Kamiroff in
Boston. Also, he was wearing his tweed topcoat, which he had left in
New York. A search of his pockets revealed the usual keys and change.
In his billfold was three hundred dollars in cash--more than he'd ever
carried around in his life--and a receipt for a new twenty-dollar hat.
The receipt was dated the tenth.

He took off his hat and looked at it. Brand new, with his initials on
the sweatband.

Evidently, he'd been doing something the past two weeks--but what?

He remembered talking to Kamiroff about the variability of
time--something about a man named Dunne. And he remembered the
biochemist saying that time travel was physically impossible. For a
second or two, Bethelman wondered whether he'd been projected into the
future somehow. But if he had, he reasoned, he'd still be wearing the
same clothes he'd had on in Boston.

_No_, he decided, _it's something else. I've gone off my rocker. I'm
daffy as a dung beetle. What I need is a good psychiatrist._

But that didn't explain the note.

He took it out and looked at it again. It still said the same thing. He
decided that before he went to a psychiatrist, he'd do what the note
said. He'd go to Marco's.

After all, if he couldn't trust himself, who could he trust?

Marco's was a little place down on Second Avenue. It wasn't the most
elite bar in New York, but it wasn't the worst dive, either.

Marco was standing near the door when Bethelman entered. "Ah! Mr.
Bethelman! The package you were expecting is here. The--ah--_gentleman_
left it." The beaming smile on his face was a marvel to behold.

"Thanks," Bethelman said.

Marco dived behind the bar and came up with a package wrapped in brown
paper and an envelope addressed to Bethelman. The package was about
three inches wide, a little less than six inches long, and nearly
an inch thick. He slid it into his topcoat pocket and tore open the
envelope.

_There should be close to ten thousand dollars in the package_, the
note said. _You promised Marco a grand of it if number 367 won--which,
of course, it did. He got hold of the runner for you._

Again, the note was in his own handwriting.

He gave Marco the thousand and left. There were some things he'd have
to find out. He went to his apartment on 86th Street and put in a long
distance call to Dr. Elijah Kamiroff in Boston. After an hour, he was
informed that Dr. Kamiroff was out of town and was not expected back
for two weeks. Where had he gone? That was confidential; Dr. Kamiroff
had some work to do and did not wish to be disturbed.

Bethelman cursed the biochemist roundly and then went to his private
files, where he kept clippings of his own stories. Sure enough, there
were coverages of several things over the past two weeks, all properly
bylined.

Two weeks before, he had written the little article on research being
done on cancer at Boston University School of Medicine, most of which
he'd gotten from Dr. Kamiroff. No clues there; he'd evidently been
behaving naturally for the past two weeks. But why couldn't he remember
it? Why was his memory completely blanked out?

He had to know.

       *       *       *       *       *

He spent the next two weeks running down his activities during the
blank period, and the more he worked, the more baffled he became. He
had never been a gambling man, but he seemed to have become one over
those two weeks. And a damned lucky one at that.

Horse races, the numbers game, even the stock market, all seemed to
break right for him. In the blank two weeks, Bethelman had made himself
close to fifty thousand dollars! And every so often, he'd come across a
little note from himself, telling him that he was doing fine. Once, a
note he found in his bureau drawer, tucked among the socks, told him to
invest every cent he had in a certain security and then sell the next
day. He did it and made another nine thousand dollars.

It was exactly four weeks to the day after he had sat in the bar with
Dr. Kamiroff that he found the last cryptic note to himself. It was in
his unabridged dictionary, laying right on the page which contained
the word he happened to be looking up.

_Tomorrow morning_, it said, _you will see Dr. Kamiroff. But don't
expect him to explain anything to you until you have explained
everything to him._

So he would see Kamiroff in the morning, eh? He'd been trying to get
hold of the biochemist every day for the past two weeks--and there had
been no results.

That night, just before bed-time, Bethelman drank a glass of beer. One
glass. No more.

And that's why he couldn't understand waking up the next morning with a
king-size hangover. He rolled over in bed, moaning--half afraid to open
his eyes.

"Oooooh!" he said. "My head!"

"Want a bromo?" a familiar voice asked sympathetically.

Bethelman forced his eyes open. The stocky, smiling face of Dr. Elijah
Kamiroff floated above him.

Bethelman sat straight up in bed, his eyes wide. The effort made his
head hurt worse. He looked around.

He was in the upstairs guest bedroom of Dr. Kamiroff's suburban home.

He turned to look at the biochemist, who was busily mixing a bromo.

"What date is this?" he asked.

Kamiroff looked at him with mild blue eyes. "It's the second," he
said. "Why?"

Bethelman took the glass of fizzing liquid and downed it. The pattern
was beginning to make sense. He had gone to sleep in Boston the night
of the first and awakened in New York on the fifteenth. Then he had
gone to sleep in New York on the twenty-ninth and awakened on the
second.

It made a weird kind of sense.

He handed the empty glass back to the biochemist and said: "Dr.
Kamiroff, sit down. I want to tell you something."

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later, Kamiroff was rubbing his chin with a forefinger,
deep in concentration. "It sounds wild," he said at last, "but I've
heard of wild things before."

"But what caused it?"

"Do you remember what you did last night? I mean the night of the
first?"

"Not clearly; we got pretty crocked, I remember."

Kamiroff grinned. "I think you were a few up on me. Do you remember
that bottle of white powder I had in the lab down in the basement?"

"No," Bethelman admitted.

"It was diazotimoline, one of the drugs we've been using in cancer
research on white mice. That whole family of compounds has some pretty
peculiar properties. This one happens to smell like vanilla; when I
let you smell it, you stuck your finger in it and licked off some of
the powder before I could stop you.

"It didn't bother me much; we've given it to mice without any ill
effects, so I didn't give you an emetic or anything."

The bromo had made Bethelman's head feel better. "But what happened,
exactly?" he asked.

"As far as I can judge," the biochemist said, "the diazotimoline has
an effect on the mind. Not by itself, maybe; perhaps it needed the
synergetic combination with alcohol. I don't know.

"Have you heard the theories that Dunne propounded on the mind?"

"Yeah," Bethelman said. "We discussed them last night, I think."

"Right. The idea is that the mind is independent of time, but just
follows the body along through the time stream.

"Evidently, what the diazotimoline did was project your mind two
weeks into the future--to the fifteenth. After two weeks--on the
twenty-ninth--it wore off, and your mind returned to the second. Now
you'll relive those two weeks."

"That sounds like a weird explanation," Bethelman said.

"Well, look at it this way. Let's just say you remember those two
weeks in the wrong order. The drug mixed your memory up. You remember
the fortnight of the second to the fifteenth _after_ you remember the
fortnight of the fifteenth to the twenty-ninth. See?"

"Good gosh, yes! Now I see how I made all that money! I read all the
papers; I know what the stocks are going to do; I know what horses are
going to win! Wow!"

"That's right," Kamiroff agreed. "And you'll know where to leave all
those notes to yourself."

"Yeah! And on the afternoon of the fifteenth, I'll blank out and wake
up in my bed on the morning of the thirtieth!"

"I should think so, yes," Kamiroff said.

"It makes sense, now." Then Bethelman looked up at the biochemist. "By
the way, Dr. Kamiroff, I want to split this money with you; after all,
you're responsible for what happened."

The scientist smiled and shook his head. "No need of that. I have the
diazotimoline, remember? You said you couldn't get hold of me on the
phone; you said I was doing experimental work and couldn't be disturbed.

"Now, just what do you think I'm going to be experimenting on for the
next couple of months?"



        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLANK? ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

